White House mean this literally when the
pure unadulterated evil is Unleashed on
this
world the people of Israel live through
one such moment this
weekend the bloody hands of the
terrorist organization amas a group
whose state of purpose for being is to
kill
Jews this was an act of sheer
evil more than 1,000 civilians
slaughtered not just kill slaughtered in
Israel among them at least 14 American
citizens
killed parents butchered using their
bodies to try to protect their
children stomach turning reports of
being babies being killed entire family
slain young people massacred while
attending a musical festival to
celebrate peace to celebrate peace women
raped assaulted paraded as
trophies
families hid Their Fear for hours and
hours desperately trying to keep their
children quiet to avoid drawing
attention and thousands of
wounded alive but carrying with them the
bullet holes and the shrapnel wounds and
the memory of what they
endured you all know these traumas never
go
away there's still so many families
desperately waiting to hear the fate of
their loved ones not knowing if they're
alive or dead or
hostages infants in their mother's arms
grandparents and wheelchairs Holocaust
Survivors abducted and Hell
hostage hostages whom Hamas has now
threaten execute in violation of every
code of human
morality it's
aorn the brutality of
amas his bloodthirstiness brings to mind
the worst the worst Rampages of
Isis this is
Terrorism but sadly for the Jewish
people it's not
new this attack has brought to the
surface painful memories and the scars
left by a millennia of anti-Semitism and
genocide of the Jewish
people so in this
moment we must be Crystal Clear we stand
with
Israel we stand with
Israel and we will make sure Israel has
what it needs to take care of its
citizens defend itself and respond to
this attack there's no justification for
terrorism there's no
excuse Hamas does not stand for the
Palestinian people's right to dignity
and
self-determination the state of purposes
the annihilation of the state of Israel
and the murder of Jewish people
they use Palestinian civilians as human
Shields Hamas offers nothing but Terror
and bloodshed with no
regard to who pays the
price the loss of innocent life is
heartbreaking like every nation in the
world Israel has the right to respond
indeed has a duty to respond to these
vicious
attacks I just got off the phone with a
third call with prime minister Netanyahu
and I told him the United States
experience with Israel experiencing our
response would be swift decisive and
overwhelming we also discussed how
democracies like Israel and the United
States are stronger and more secure when
we act according to the rule of
law
terrorists per purposely Target
civilians kill them
we uphold the laws of war law of War it
matters there's a
difference today Americans across the
country are praying for all those
families that have been ripped
apart a lot of us know how it feels it
leaves a black hole in your chest when
you lose
family feeling like you're being sucked
in the anger the
pain the sense of
hopelessness
this is what they mean by human
tragedy an
atrocity on an appalling
scale we're going to continue to stand
United supporting the people of Israel
who are suffering unspeakable losses and
opposing the
hatred and violence of
terrorism my team has been in near
constant communication with our Israeli
partners and partners all across the
region and the world from the moment
this Crisis began we're surging
additional military system including
ammunition and interceptors to replenish
Iron
Dome we're going to make sure that
Israel does not run out of these
critical assets to defend its cities and
its
citizens my Administration has consulted
closely with Congress throughout this
crisis when Congress returns we're going
to ask them to take urgent action to
fund the National Security requirements
of our critical
Partners this is not about party or
politics it's about the security of our
world the security of the United States
of
America we now know that American
citizens are among those being held by
Hamas I've directed my team to share
intelligence and deploy additional
experts from across the United States
government to consult with and advise
Israeli counterparts on hostage recover
recovery efforts because as president I
have no higher priority than the safety
of Americans being held hostage around
the
world the United States has also
enhanced our military force posture in
the region to strengthen our
deterrence the Department of Defense has
moved the USS jlr Ford carrier strike
group to the Eastern Mediterranean and
bolstered our fighter aircraft presence
and we stand ready to move in additional
assets as
needed let me say again to any country
any organization anyone thinking of
taking advantage of this
situation I have one word
don't
don't our hearts may be broken but our
resolve is
clear yesterday I also spoke with the
leaders of France Germany Italy in UK to
discuss the latest developments with our
European allies and coordinate our
United
response this comes on top of days of
steady engagement with Partners across
the
region we're also taking steps at home
in cities across the United States of
America police departments have stepped
up security around centers for of Jewish
life the Department of Homeland Security
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
are working closely with state and local
law enforcement and Jewish Community
Partners to identify and disrupt any
domestic threat that could emerge
connection with these horrific
attacks this is a moment for the United
States to come together to grieve with
those who are
mourning let's be real
clear there is no place for hate in
America not against Jews not against
Muslims not against anybody we re reject
we reject what we reject is
Terrorism we condemn the indiscriminate
evil just what we've always done that's
what America stands
for you know just over 50 years ago I
was thinking about it this morning
talking the Secretary of State the Vice
President in my
office over 50 years
ago as a young Senator I visited Israel
for the first time as a newly elected
senator
and I had a long long
trip a meeting with golden Mayer in her
office just before the am kapore
war and I guess you could see the
consternation on my face as she
described what was being faced they were
facing we walked outside in that that
sort of hallway outside her
office to have some photo she looked
looked at me all of a sudden and said
would you like to have a
photograph and so I got up and followed
her out we're standing there silent
looking at the Press she could tell I
guess I was concerned she leaned over
and whispered to me she said don't worry
Senator Biden we have a secret Reon here
in
Israel my word is what he said we have
no place else to
go we have no place else to go
go for 75 years Israel has stood as the
only guarantor of security of Jewish
people around the world so that the
atrocities of the past could never
happen again and let there be no doubt
the United States has Israel's back we
will make sure the Jewish and Democratic
state of Israel can defend itself today
tomorrow as we always have it's as
simple as that these
atrocities been
sickening we're with Israel let's make
no mistake thank you Mr President what
was your
[Music]
reaction okay you've just been listening
to the US President Joe Biden uh and his
address from the White House on the uh
Israel Gaza War very strong speech we're
going to be talking to Maran bashara
alzer's senior political analyst you're
joining us from Paris first though let's
go live to Kimberly hit our White House
correspondent in Washington DC Kimberly
uh it's not the first time that Biden
speaks since uh this is day four of the
war not the first time we've heard Biden
but the first time we've heard him like
this in this much detail and you know he
chose to open his speech with I think
with a very strong emotional payload
it's fair to
say yeah the United States has Israel's
back and certainly we've always known
that in terms of the dollars that are
spent but it's certainly something that
was reiterated by the US president and a
lot of what we heard in this speech was
uh things that we've heard in the past
few days that Israel has a right to
defend itself that it has the United
States wants to make sure that it has
what it needs to respond in other words
the president there as
commander-in-chief of the US military
saying that it will surge in terms of
the Munitions that the Israeli military
needs in order to defend itself uh the
US president outlining there we expected
we might have had a few more details
than we actually got from the president
uh we we a little thin on details there
uh but the US president talking about
his call with the Israeli Prime Minister
that uh the Israel military is promising
a Swift and over overwhelming response
in terms of what it calls retaliation
towards Hamas uh what I do want to point
out though is uh one sort of point of
what you might call hypocrisy on the
part of the US president where he talked
about the uh United States in Alliance
with uh Israel saying that what the
distinction between what he called the
terrorists uh is that that they believe
they uphold the law in terms of the the
rules of international law and and War
he said that only terrorists would
attack civilians but clearly that uh is
not uh entirely accurate because what
we've seen in recent days obviously is
the Israeli military cutting off not
only food but electricity and water uh
to the Palestinians in Gaza we've uh
certainly seen the attacks that have
been not surgical but in fact uh being
sort of a large swath of apartment
complexes that we know have allowed for
uh women children uh elderly to be
caught up in this and so uh for the
president to say that they have been uh
that they have been abiding by the rules
of law certainly is uh not would not be
accurate and to to be partnering with
Israel in this would certainly not be
accurate and I think that one more thing
that we should point out in all of this
is the language the president used when
he talked about the United States coming
together and this is not a time for
party or politics this is about the
security of the world this is very much
the type of language that we heard back
around the September 11th attacks and
many people have called this Israel's
911 for lack of of a better term or
terminology and uh many might be sort of
almost alarmed when they hear this
because uh when it comes to kind of the
military-industrial complex and the war
mongers on Capitol Hill uh one can kind
of be troubled by hearing this that
maybe this is a White House pivoting
towards uh a conflict or a broader
conflict there's much as they say they
are not looking to see this escalate
that they may at least be preparing for
that well Kimberly stand by stay with us
everything you've said is duly noted um
it's also interesting to note the
contrast even as President Joe Biden was
speaking we had the live picture of the
Skies over Gaza and we saw repeated
military uh bombardments of the Gaza
Strip Marwan I want to bring you in and
I want to get your thoughts on this
speech uh US President Joe Biden saying
Israel has not only a right to respond
but a but quote a duty to
respond yes um
you know having followed uh prime
minister Netanyahu who's a very slick
speaker uh with excellent English and an
incredible reservoir of sound bites
having read his books and followed his
speeches for the past 30 years I tell
you every single word Biden said is a
Netanyahu word I think the prime
minister of Israel has once again
Brainwashed the American president and
it's really sad to see the leader of the
Free World as he called himself
repeating word for word verting what
Netanyahu I guess have told him because
much of that soundbite that we just
heard from um the American president
seems or sounds to me like he was told
from the from Netanyahu the point about
the sole purpose of Hamas is to kill
Jews bloodthirsty this is not an
American president's words this is the
netanyahu's words and he's been using
them forever and the point about the
Palestinians using a human shield this
is Netanyahu sound bite that's not an
American president sound bite you would
always expect that an American president
when it comes to Israel that American
Presidents act like the grown-ups in the
room and that they would you know
advise patience and advise maturity and
advise uh uh you know certain soberness
towards dealing with these sorts of
questions that are complicated in the
Middle East except in this case what we
see is President Biden
repeating what the uh what what the
Israeli Prime Minister told him and on
the other points that uh Kimberly
mentioned I don't have to repeat them
but they are very accurate because the
indiscriminate bombing of Gaza and the
collective punishment of Gaza and the
blockading and the siege and cutting off
of electricity fuel food goods and so on
so forth that is not International law
and these are not the laws of war this
is a direct violation of international
law and President Biden knows it he
knows it but he chose once again for the
third time that I heard him the last
three days he chooses again and again to
ignore the plight of the
Palestinians which is absolutely
nonsensical because this conflict
involves two people now it's okay it's
it's it's expected for leaders to
demonize one another and it's okay and
expected for the American president and
the Israeli Prime Minister to demonize
Hamas and Palestinian leadership in
general it's called
politics but dehumanizing an entire
people is not politics it's
racism when you dehumanize the
Palestinian people who have been living
under occupation for more than 55 years
dispossessed of their belongings for the
past 75 years this dehumanization is
racism they cannot continue to be racist
towards the Palestinians because they
are the weaker party or for political
expediency which takes me to the third
point he says we're all United and we're
all this and that and other thing humbug
we all know and you read that throughout
the American press that Biden is trying
to jump on the bandwagon because the
Republicans had undermined him and said
accused him of financing you know
incorrectly as it I might be Iran that
finan
this sort of operation against Israel so
he is basically regaining the
initiatives and instead of saying no we
did not and the money is still in theq
Central Bank he's basically now trying
to over uh Kill by going even beyond
what the Republicans have been saying
and showing this incredible friendship
to Israel and in unconditional support
and once again he underlined that
America is dispatching the uh uh the
aircraft carrier and the strike force to
the east Mediterranean and he said and
warned anyone state or non-state actor
which I presume probably isbah don't he
said so what does that mean is he
issuing an ultimatum that if anyone
attacks Israel including America is
going to get involved really America
wants to get involved into another
Regional war after Afghanistan Iraq
Libya Somalia and so on and so forth
this is the president that promised to
end the forever Wars and got out
humiliated out of the Afghanistan he
really wants to start another War
because Hamas carried a gruesome attack
in southern Israel that is not a grownup
conversation that's not a grownup speech
and that is not a way to deal with a
with a complicated conflict and
certainly not by dehumanizing an entire
people that is racism well Maran how do
you read that line the the one you just
referenced he said quote any country
organization thinking of taking
advantage of this situation don't um it
appears the US president is putting his
money where his mouth is to the extent
that they're providing military they
they are providing they're are surging I
think is the word that's being used
today surging their military aid to
Israel they're going to replenish their
ammunition stocks for the Iron Dome uh
system and even as I speak we just saw
the uh US aircraft carrier that's being
sent to the region so there are real
there is real military hardware that is
being you know that is being increased
and that Biden is bringing to bear on
this
situation and it's ultimately mad mad
you know all our hearts goes to all the
civilians dying including American
civilians and Israeli civilians but the
idea you respond to the killing of
civilians by sending aircraft carriers
to the east Mediterranean and I've just
read that there's Israeli reports that
maybe another aircraft has might be sent
towards the east Mediterranean this is
just Madness and you by the way October
10 apparently is World mental health day
so I'm worried that we are all losing
our minds because the idea that an
American president issues an ultimatum
here where we are with our aircraft
carriers that could probably you know
start a third world war that we are here
and we are warning you any one of you
that will you know attack or take
advantage of the situation then that
presumably America will respond this is
a dangerous escalation and I'll tell you
why this is particularly a dangerous
escalation and allow me to use just one
one Concept in in military strategic
Affairs through C the this trap which
basically says you build up your forces
in anticipation of a danger the other
party feeling insecure builds up their
own uh armaments and position in order
to balance out your threats and your
military uh uh augmentation so what
happens is now hisbah Iran and whoever
else is also on their toes while America
is awaiting anyone to provoke and what
you have is a possibility that this
thing will go out of hand simply by you
know Hezbollah launching more missiles
against Israel and suddenly you have
America involved in another Middle
Eastern War I think prime minister netan
has manipulated the American president
into getting involved perhaps eventually
hopefully not into another regional
conflict that would be catastrophic one
for Israel two for America and certainly
for the United States and the middle
east region I think the I think the
United States needs to sober up I think
it needs to get its politics out of its
strategy I think they need to hold back
I think they need to start talking about
diplomacy and I think it's time for the
American president to start speaking
about an immediate ceasefire even if if
it's just empty words we need to hear
him we need to hear the American
president and his European allies in
addition
to expressing their unconditional
support to Israel to start speaking
about diplomacy and ending the state of
War because we all know and I think the
American president probably should know
first that there is no military solution
to the Palestinian problem there isn't
even a military solution to Hamas
because it is a resistance uh group it
is not sole purpose is to kill Jews
Hamas was born in the 1980s as a result
of the Israeli occupation Hamas did not
exist before the Israeli exist
occupation existed no it is not
anti-Semitism Hamas is not anti
Palestinian resistance is not
anti-Semitism even if some of them would
actually use some horrific unaccept
unacceptable language against Israel and
Jews but it's not anti-semitic it's
resistance occupation and they are the
product of occupation and it is sad day
that we are where we are here because of
Israel's occupation and American Support
unconditional support to Israel as it
continues to occupy and settle illegally
in
Palestine Maran Bashar look thank you
very much for your reaction and
commentary after the speech we just
heard from uh the US President Joe Biden
a very short while ago from the White
House thanks Marwan